Documentation using gh-pages (#57)
open-energy-transition/form-energy-storage: documentation/12-scenarios.rst

##########################################
Scenarios Configuration
##########################################

> This is the scenario outline used in the analysis **The Role of Energy Storage in Germany**.

Reviewer: Let's add a bullet list of the scenarios at the top of the page to give an overview and the bullets point to the corresponding subsections. Like a toc basically

> For each scenario involving medium-duration storages, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each scenario involving multi-day storages, 
```

> there is always a corresponding counterfactual scenario that excludes medium-duration storages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
there is always a corresponding counterfactual scenario that excludes multi-day storages.
```

.. note::

>    The PyPSA-Eur configuration follows a pyramid-like structure, where the parameters in the highest configuration override those in the configurations below it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The PyPSA-Eur configuration files follow a pyramid-like structure, where the parameters in the highest configuration file add to and override those in the configuration file below it. 
```

   The order is as follows:

   1. scenarios.form.yaml (**this section**)
   2. `config.form.yaml <https://open-energy-transition.github.io/form-energy-storage/11-baseline.html>`_
   3. `config.default.yaml <https://pypsa-eur.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html>`_
   4. `config.kpi.yaml <https://open-energy-transition.github.io/form-energy-storage/13-kpis.html>`_

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Thus, for example changes specified in `scenario.form.yaml` will add to and override configurations in `config.form.yaml` and so on.

```

``Baseline``
============

The Baseline scenario is based on the climate year 2013, with the cost of iron-air set at 2,350 EUR/kWh (2024).

.. literalinclude:: ../config/scenarios.form.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :start-at: baseline-mds:
   :end-before: mid-capex-mds:

``Mid-Capex``
=============

The Mid-Capex scenario sets the cost of iron-air at 2,000 EUR/kWh (2024), 
slightly lower than the Baseline scenario.

.. literalinclude:: ../config/scenarios.form.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :start-at: mid-capex-mds:
   :end-before: low-capex-mds:

``Low-Capex``
=============

The Low-Capex scenario sets the cost of iron-air at 1,525 EUR/kWh (2024), 

> which is half the cost of the Baseline scenario.

Reviewer: It is not actually half the cost of the baseline scenario, is it?

> which is half the cost of the Baseline scenario.

Author: ```suggestion
representing the lowest cost for iron-air when compared to the Baseline scenario.
```

.. literalinclude:: ../config/scenarios.form.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :start-at: cy2010-mds:
   :end-before: cy2012-mds:

``Climate Year 2012``
=====================

This scenario is based on the climate year 2012, which is the most stressful climate year in terms of 
2-week Dunkelflaute situation at European aggregated level (`2024 TYNDP Scenarios Methodology Report <https://2024.entsos-tyndp-scenarios.eu/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/TYNDP_2024_Scenarios_Methodology_Report_240708.pdf>`_, page 30)

.. literalinclude:: ../config/scenarios.form.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :start-at: cy2012-mds:
   :end-before: cy1996-mds:

``Climate Year 1996``
=====================

This scenario is based on the climate year 1996, which is characterised by low yield of PV and wind, 
as well as a pronounced “dark doldrums” for about 10 days in January (`TransnetBW Energy System 2050 Report <https://www.energysystem2050.net/content/TransnetBW-Study_EnergySystem2050.pdf?v2>`_, page 19)

.. literalinclude:: ../config/scenarios.form.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :start-at: cy1996-mds:
   :end-before: nogasppde-mid-capex-mds:

> ``Germany Gas Phased Out``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``Germany Gas Power Plant Phase-Out``
```

==========================

> These scenarios assume that Germany successfully phases out gas-fired power plants and gas CHPs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These scenarios assume that Germany, driven by policy decision, successfully phases out gas-fired power plants and gas CHPs in 2035. 
```

The impact of the cost difference between iron-air batteries at 2,000 EUR/kWh (2024) and 1,525 EUR/kWh (2024) 
is also examined.

.. literalinclude:: ../config/scenarios.form.yaml
   :language: yaml
   :start-at: nogasppde-mid-capex-mds:
   :end-before: delayed-nep-mid-capex-mds:

``Transmission Sensitivity``
============================

> These scenarios assume that the EU's transmission project in 2035 faces setbacks, with only existing lines available. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These scenarios assume that Germany's 'NEP' transmission projects face delays, with only confirmed AC lines and DC links available that are to be built before and including 2032. 
```

##########################################
Scenarios Configuration
##########################################

This is the scenario outline used in the analysis **The Role of Energy Storage in Germany**.
For each scenario involving medium-duration storages, 
there is always a corresponding counterfactual scenario that excludes medium-duration storages.

``Baseline``
=============

> The Baseline scenario is based on the climate year 2013, with the cost of iron-air set at 2,350 EUR/kWh.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to explain why 2013 ?
